---
layout: default
title: "DC Conferences 2024"
date: 2024-09-28
categories:
   - conferences
---


Heyo!


So I have taken... I guess close to a 6 month hiatus from this blog? To be honest I don't even have a great memory of what I have done over the last 6 months that I should be keeping track of. It will be close to a year now from me finishing my Georgia Tech OMSCS degree. It's hard to think about all that has happened.


At this point I think that the more "sustainable" approach for me is to write a blog post every 2 to 4 weeks to just get some of my learnings and musings out in the open as a defacto log. In this case I wanted to reflect on the two conferences that I attended this year in DC. Kubernetes Community Days - DC, and DevOps Days DC.


## 24 September 2024 - Kubernetes Community Days - DC (KCD - DC 2024)
This was a very satisfying event! After a year of volunteering to help organize the event. While I first signed up to help try and organize the catering, due to the offsite I was participating with at work and PTO I was taking prior to, the deadline for choosing a catering vendor went by pretty quickly. The vendor of choice was one picked for familiarity rather than exclusively for sustainability practices. Lesson learned for next year is that I should get invoices and quotes **WITH** labor, and not expect to boot strap so much. Having seen the number of sponsors that were there this year, I think it makes sense to try and pay for professionals to run such an important part of the show.


I was able to meet a few previous coworkers from my Data Machine days and reminisce a bit about work. Seeing so many talks focused on Kubernetes as well really felt like going back in time to my on prem work trying to get Kubernetes installed on some Dell servers and having to get physical access from people to the server rooms.


I found the talks to be pretty demo heavy, which was definitely interesting to see how spectacularly those can fail live. After some discussions with other people over the next few days I was recommended to read a book on [presentation patterns][pp] to help craft high end keynotes.


The mix of volunteering and attending for this session was ideal for me. I was able to interact with the other volunteers whenever there was a presentation that was not within my wheel house, and at the same time there were enough volunteers that they would cover for me for presentations that I wanted to attend.


Overall, this conference day made me more excited to try and find more opportunities to contribute to open source projects or to volunteer with CNCF in general.


## 25 & 26 September 2024 - DevOps Days DC
For this conference I was an attendee rather than a volunteer. I found that the conference here, especially the keynotes felt much more in the spirit fo "DevOps" rather than a focus on a product. That meant that there was much less focus on demos and new features of a product. Instead it was more talks about the culture of DevOps. Things like how to incorporate more security practices into day to day flow, creating an inclusive learning culture, the difference between compliance and governance, and what most conferences for 2024 are probably all like, a smattering of generative AI discussions.


Most interesting was the talk by Prem Chandrasekaran. He spoke about a variety of ways to accelerate development within your organization. The talk covered a wide variety of pieces of advice that I want to follow up on when the video is released on Youtube. The most interesting part ot me was the brief section on a prioritization framework. Pain \| Current Adoption \| Feasibility vs Value. Each the X and Y axis had basic categories of low, medium, high.


Each day there were "ignite" style talks of 5 minute presentations with 20 slides that auto-progressed. I thought that something similar but be a good way of getting information out to the rest of the organization since I work at an all remote organization.


There were breakout sessions as well that had an ad-hoc nature to them. While I had decent discussions with the group, and got an opportunity to meet more people as a result of it, I don't feel like I had a lot of learning from the sessions themselves. The group dynamic and getting to know other people within my field was the benefit for those sessions.


[pp]: https://www.amazon.com/Presentation-Patterns-Techniques-Crafting-Presentations/dp/0321820800