---
layout: post
title: "Human Computer Interaction - UX Research in a Trenchcoat"
date: 2023-12-19
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

Welcome welcome back to another riveting entry into my OMSCS class review. Previous entries included [Knowledge Based AI][kbai], [AI for Robotics][ai4r], and [Software Development Process][sdp]. This time around we will be going over [Human Computer Interaction][hci].

I took the class in the Summer of 2021. I skipped taking a class during the Spring semester of 2021. Taking a spring or summer semester off has the benefit of being a longer period of time before starting up on classes. The downside is that summer is usually a better time for vacations to take off, and you then do not have to take classes that are on shortened time scale.

But to the contents of the class itself: video lectures discussing the topic, essays revolving around the topics in the video, a few projects, a long term HCI research assignment, and exams. There would be three or four questions with each taking about a page. The writing itself felt very straightforward. The topics were interesting enough, and there was plenty of readings in textbooks that I would say are highly optional. You also had to review and provide feedback for other students essays. I've never found the process of soliciting others feedback helpful, especially in a completely asynchronous context. It just felt like a hoop to jump through rather than a meaningful feedback method.

The most valuable part of the class was the long term HCI research assignment. You were supposed to design, create, and analyze a small scale UX reserach project with actual users. The most time intensive component was gathering the data through interviews (it depends on what kind of UX research you end up doing though). The exercises is where I would especially make sure to focus on making time for. Overall it was a great way to get exposed to UI/UX concepts and the basics behind the research.

The exams were open book, and that is where all of the reading assignment that I said were optional come in. I did not study ahead of time and took the exams relying heavily on my ability to search through the readings.

Overall, I enjoyed learning about the concepts of HCI / UX in the class and developed much more of an appreciation for research in the field (both theoretical and applied). The classwork can sometimes feel like busywork, but having work to consistently do in the class is helpful to be consistent on learning. It was a decent class to take in the summer.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6750-human-computer-interaction