---
layout: post
title: "Software Development Process - Things You Pick Up at Work"
date: 2023-12-13
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

Back to OMSCS classes review! This time it's [Software Development Process][sdp] from Fall of 2020. I will note that there was PLENTY going on outside of the classroom at this time, so much of my review is colored by personal life / global events. But that's also likely the case for any class.

But the elephant in the room is the Covid-19 pandemic. Just to make sure there is some context setting, the summer prior is when the initial lockdown measures seemed to be over, and there was still a glimmer of hope that somehow there wouldn't be a wave of illnesses in the fall. Many of us were still tracking covid infection dashboards during that time.

I decided I wanted to take this Software Development class at that time. At the time I was still within the first 6 months of a new job that was a mix of Software Engineering and DevOps. This was my first "real" SWE related role, and the first time that I would be working with a team using things like Version Control, and building applications, etc. This would also be the first time that I would have colleagues that are clearly experts in the field of software development. I took this class with the intention of upleveling my work.

The Software Development Process class is there to intend to teach the fundamentals of working as a team on creating an greenfield application starting from requirements through releases. The code itself was Java, and the platform was an Android application. The helpful part about this class was having an Android Phone that I had in Developer Mode already (for actual day to day work where we were using Flutter / Dart) so that way I could actually build for my phone and confirm that the application worked as expected outside of the Android Emulator. Like most classes, it really is only built for development locally on a well known Operating System. Android Studio is pretty resource hungry, and trying to use Android Studio in a VM likely requires some BIOS changes that are difficult to figure out and is very resource hungry. Containerizing or isolating for a class always feels way more difficult than it should be.

There was a mix of indepenedent assignments and a group assignment for the class. The focus was on a highly Object Oriented language (Java) with designs to match. The application we worked on as a group required creating a bunch of UML diagrams from requirements including Use Case Diagrams and Object Diagrams with a heavy focus on the Object Diagrams. There was also a decent focus on testing.

Regarding the content: it was interesting to learn about UML diagrams but the heavy requirements of those does not feel like it actually mirrors my experience at various workplaces. The testing focused more on testing edge cases rather than focusing on the whole point of testing which is regression tests, unit tests driven by Test Driven Development, integration tests as necessary, mocking tools, and using coverage calculation tools. Especially not that generative chat tools exist that can quickly crank out tests that cover use cases, the testing module in retrospect feels severely lacking. The information about using Git, or using a Version Control System in general feels like it was so quickly glossed over that it's ridiculous. One of the most critical things that would be helpful for ANY SWE position is learning about VCS's, different frameworks for contributing as a team, dealing with merges, PRs / MRs, rebasing, and honestly just etiquette on doing code reviews.

The group project was more difficult than I expected, but nothing about the content was difficult. We had 3 different time zones, 4 team members, highly variable on development experience, and also we were in the midst of an upswing of COVID. Scheduling was always a hassle for synchronous meetings, and even with only a few months into my new role I was more experienced than half of the team on Software Development Process. The team members were really good about how to create UML diagrams, but when it actually came to coding it was really difficult to have to teach others why you need to actually push your code to the repo and that you have to have others review your code instead of just merging it directly to main.

I did not struggle with this class. But in retrospect I learned more about soft skills and working as a group remotely than I did about any relevant content about the software development process itself. It's a little disappointing in retrospect where I feel like the objectives of the class were not actually met, but I probably learned things that were MORE relevant to software engineering than just the software development lifecycle. In particular, interpersonal management with remote individuals across differing skill, maturity, and points in their lives is a more valuable skill than any objective that was listed on the syllabus.

A side note is that I ended up going into the "Interactive Intelligence" specialty, and was able to use this class as a core requirement so I would not have to take Graduate Algorithms. I wanted to keep the option of taking GA, but by the time in the program when I would be enrolling into the class (8, 9, or 10) I had already lost a lot of my drive for difficulty. Having this as a backup option to avoid having to take a truly difficult course was a blessing.

-- Steven B.

[sdp]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6300-software-development-process