---
layout: default
title: "Video Game Design - Working with teams with People who don't work on teams"
date: 2024-03-13
categories: omscs
---

Heyo!

I'm back again after more time spent away from blogging. But I'm nearing the end of this and at the very least I should finish up all of the OMSCS stuff before I cover other information! I think I want to start covering some backstage stuff in upcoming posts to get some information out about that from work.

Anyways, let's jump back in on OMSCS review. The next class that I took was [Video Game Design][vgd]. Previous entries included:
- [Knowledge Based AI][kbai]
- [AI for Robotics][ai4r]
- [Software Development Process][sdp]
- [Human Computer Interaction][hci]
- [Artificial Intelligenc][ai]
- [Machine Learning for Trading][ml4t]
- [Game AI][gai]
- [Network Security][ns]

Let's jump right in!

Overall I would say that if you are interested in video games, then this is a pretty worthwhile course to take. I will caveat the big part up front: this is a group assignment class where the largest component was the group assignment in terms of grades.

The course started with a few lessons and lectures that go through the fundamentals of game design including a lot of history. Overall the lecture slides were informative, and some sections had really interesting stories. But overall the class lecture slides did not really provide actionable items for the assignment. It helped maybe more with some theory (and therefore answering the mid term and finals), but do not feel significant in retrospect. The meat of the course there were the assignments. 

There were a variety of assignments that helped go through some of the fundamentals of game design. The unity engine was used for this course. The assignments included basic engine use, incorporating physics aspects into a model, player movement including inverse kinematics, animations, some basic AI path finding with nav meshes, lookahead for AI, and a variety of other topics. These individual assignments did not really have much to include in the realms of programming, but were primarily there to give us a really solid foundation before moving into group work. The assignments included tutorial videos that I would say are essential to completing the assignment, so I would follow along in the assignment instructions step by step with the video since it's pretty much verbatim. While this sounds too much like being spoon fed, the purpose is to get as much UIisms and techniques learned quickly to get a pretty decent game up and running.

The group assignment was... well it just stressed me out a ton. This is more of a personal problem I have with group work, and not necessarily indicative of the assignment as a whole. The group work assignment included getting a very basic outline of what type of game the group would build, the allocation of work, and also a really quick demo with some physics demonstration to show what the game would be without any textures or models downloaded. This was done in the summer of 2023, so it was a shortened class. We only had a week to get a group formed, decide on the type of game, and get a rough demo out. That felt very rushed.

The remaining 6 weeks was a rush to get a video game up and running. There were plenty of assets taken from the Unity Store to have a good looking game. The group ended getting everything done as we intended, but it felt very nerve wracking to me. My group only had individuals that were bit less experienced with working on a software team than me. Plenty of version control work was new to them. Pull Requests were opened and lingered, comments were not addressed, tasks were considered "done" without moving onto the main branch. In many ways it took a lot of work to just get all of the work reviewed and onto production. Plenty of times the PR ended living as a long lived branch, and the team mates were confused why there were so many differences that they had to go through. Mind you this is also with a video game engine so there were TONS of changes (think hundreds of lines of code) that represented metadata about objects like precise location placement. It ended up fine in the end, but I will warn that if possible to find other like minded individuals for the group project. The experience with Unity and C# doesn't matter. Have others that work professionally in a team setting with software for the project when possible to avoid the spaghetti code, massive PRs, stale branches, and tasks that are "done" even though they had not been merged onto the main branch yet.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-01-31-ai %}
[ml4t]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-06-ml4t %}
[gai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-13-game-ai %}
[ns]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-29-ns %}
[vgd]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6457-video-game-design