---
layout: post
title: "Game AI - (In)Tangible Application of AI"
date: 2024-02-13
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

I'm back again for another absolutely thrilling entry wherein I review a class that I took as part of the [OMSCS][omscs-info] program. This week we are covering a very fun class, [Game AI][gai]. Previous entries in this series included:
- [Knowledge Based AI][kbai]
- [AI for Robotics][ai4r]
- [Software Development Process][sdp]
- [Human Computer Interaction][hci]
- [Artificial Intelligenc][ai]
- [Machine Learning for Trading][ml4t]

This class is great, and I highly recommend taking it. I just want to start strong.

The class teaches you the basics of implementing AI algorithms within a video game. The engine to build video games is Unity, and all of the algorithms are implemented in C#. The projects are the core of the class. The projects end up teaching you how to implement the AI algorithms in a video game that has already been built for you, so it really is focused on implementing the algorithms instead of building related scaffolding.

A prerequisite for some of the assignments includes lessons related to Computational Geometry. The topics for the classes include Path Navigation methods including a path network, A*, and Navmesh. There's an assignment implementing a Finite State Machine. Another assignment implements Fuzzy Logic. The last assignment works through Procedural Content Generation using Perlin Noise. The assignments are great. The instructions are clear, it's an interesting application of AI methods, and the results are semi tangible because they play out graphically in front of your eyes. I especially enjoyed the Fuzzy Logic section, because there was a level of incredulity I had when the algorithm worked as intended and the car "drove" on its own after many iterations of it failing. The instant feedback you get from the game is a much better feedback loop than tests passing on an online grading platform. Also with the visual component, I would suggest taking this class before the [AI][ai] class even though AI is listed as a "prerequisite". The visual nature made seeing the path traversals of A* (and the other node traversal methods) much easier to understand.

The class had plenty of video lessons where the instructor speaks at length on the topic to provide a decent overview of how each topic works, including a decent walk through of any math that is expected to be implemented in an assignment. The video lessons are pretty long, so make sure to increase the playback speed as high as possible.

There were mid terms and final exams for this class as well. Reviewing the class lecture slides beforehand is usually fine. Even though the assignments are weighted pretty highly, don't spend too much time on it if you watched the lectures.

Overall: Take the class if you have an interest in AI. It's a great and practical way to learn AI algorithms.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-01-31-ai %}
[ml4t]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-06-ml4t %}
[gai]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-7632-game-ai