---
layout: default
title: "Digital Marketing - Coasting as a Class"
date: 2024-04-08
categories: omscs
---

Heyo!

This is the last entry in my OMSCS class review series! Hurray! Unfortunately it sort of ends on a whimper.

Anyways, let's jump back in on OMSCS review. The next class that I took was Digital Marketing. Previous entries included:
- [Knowledge Based AI][kbai]
- [AI for Robotics][ai4r]
- [Software Development Process][sdp]
- [Human Computer Interaction][hci]
- [Artificial Intelligenc][ai]
- [Machine Learning for Trading][ml4t]
- [Game AI][gai]
- [Network Security][ns]
- [Video Game Design][vgd]

Let's get into it!

This is a perfectly fine last class if you are burnt out and just want to finish the OMSCS program. You will probably not learn anything tangible or of note here.

The class was divided up into weekly videos to watch with "discussion" and "response" requirements as part of the weekly assignment. You can't really screw this up. Watch the videos, answer the questions, respond somewhat coherently to someone else's post. I don't really remember any of these weekly lessons and it has only been a few months for me at this point, so that sort of says something.

There is an additional cost for this course where you need to purchase reading materials from Harvard Business Publishing to answer questions for the occasional larger assignment. The larger assignments end up as essays that you need to write. I would say the biggest problem for the assignments is coming up with enough to say to meet the page requirements.

There are also midterms and finals that contain topics from the lectures. Multiple choice.

That's pretty much it for what the class entails. I found it pretty bland on most days, and on the rare occasion very off putting. This course really makes it feel like marketing is there to harvest funds from people rather than provide any type of service.

There are maybe a few tidbits on how to market a website with Search Engine Optimization methods, and purchasing search result ads that might be noteworthy (or at leat to be aware of the vocabulary). The rest is a chore to get through.

While this all sounds like a really low note, it also provided me with the most amount of spare time week to week, and it went by really quickly. While some classes were "Grow" classes, this one is what I would call a "Lounge" class. This class does require some work, but it isn't difficult work.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: {% post_url omscs/2024-01-31-ai %}
[ml4t]: {% post_url omscs/2024-02-06-ml4t %}
[gai]: {% post_url omscs/2024-02-13-game-ai %}
[ns]: {% post_url omscs/2024-02-29-ns %}
[vgd]: {% post_url omscs/2024-03-13-vgd %}
[dm]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/mgt-6311-digital-marketing