---
layout: default
title: "Network Security - A Smattering of Security Topics"
date: 2024-02-29
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

I'm back after a long hiatus on wirting blog posts. It turns out that my evenings have gotten busier, so I have not made the time to add to this as I should.

I also figure I'll add a few personal notes here and there on these blog posts. I'm trying out Muay Thai at a local gym, and I also am trying my hand at some figurine painting. I am exploring new hobbies, which I also believe this is included (writing blog posts) is in that list. I do like the process of writing more than I would expect, especially with the expectation that no one is ever going to read these posts. I will say that I should probably put a blog post or two here on a few technical pieces of writing in order to have SOMETHING to point that is public that I have worked on.

Anyways, let's jump back in on OMSCS review. The next class that I took was [Network Security][ns]. Previous entries included:
- [Knowledge Based AI][kbai]
- [AI for Robotics][ai4r]
- [Software Development Process][sdp]
- [Human Computer Interaction][hci]
- [Artificial Intelligenc][ai]
- [Machine Learning for Trading][ml4t]
- [Game AI][gai]

So what to say about this class? I took this during the Spring of 2023. I was entering the final bend of the program where if all things went well it would be my last year of the program. I picked this class over others because I wanted some refreshers on security and networking as part of my work as a DevOps Engineer. With no formal Cyber Security Engineers at the company, that means that any issues that are security related will eventually get floated to me and my team for investigation purposes. With that in mind this class was a decent refresher.

The class worked in a series of modules that focused primarily on the homework assignments.

The first set included basic usage of metasploit to introduce what basic red teaming looks like and how exploits and payloads work. Fairly basic if you have ever worked with metasploit. Also the instructions were very straightforward, there wasn't really much to do other than follow along.

The second project included a very good assignment to introduce Cross Site Scripting including a really good example of Tabnabbing. This is probably one of the harder assignments in the class because you actually have to program in Javascript, and think of how to accomplish a task. That includes a lot of going through Firefox MDN docs on Javascript.

The following project was trying to reverse engineer a binary exploit to understand what the behavior was for a Windows .exe, Linux binary, and an Android apk. This assignment was pretty straightforward. Follow the script, and it's mostly done. I'll complain more about the VMs later.

The next project included going through network traffic to find signs of exploits, and build snort rules to prevent them. This one I was less enthusiastic about because writing snort rules feels like syntax hell. Trying to trace through the packets though was pretty interesting with Wireshark. I wish this had more tcpdump and bpf on the command line as part of the assignment.

The last project was focused on creating an ML model to detect malicious actions in network traffic. They gave us a "normal" traffic sample to train with, and then we would have to use the ML model to find the bad traffic from the test data. The downside is that this gave no real insights into the mechanics of the ML model. It was a lot of parameter tuning. The second part of the assignment was to create a substitution table that could be used to circumvent the ML model that we created in the first assignment, which was much more interesting IMO.

I want to complain for a moment about this classes use of VMs though. I understand that there isn't exactly a lot of money to just throw around for students to tinker on cloud resources on assignments... but this class really tested my patience during the binary exploitation as we had to run VMs, that then themselves ran VMs! Why is my Mac emulating Linux which is emulating Windows XP?! And there were so many issues with the VMs with VirtualBox that I often times would just delete the entire ISO and start over to make sure things were working correctly. Snapshots didn't even seem to work half the time.

Oh, yeah. There were also midterms and finals, so I guess watch the class lectures for that reason. The midterms and finals always feel like such a large part of the weight of the class, but are the least interesting part of the course.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-01-31-ai %}
[ml4t]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-06-ml4t %}
[gai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-02-13-game-ai %}
[ns]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6262-network-security