---
layout: default
title: "Artificial Intelligence - Challenging!"
date: 2024-01-31
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

Welcome welcome everyone! I hope you are enjoying the "wild" ride that is this blog series reviewing my time in the OMSCS program, class by class. Previous entries included [Knowledge Based AI][kbai], [AI for Robotics][ai4r], [Software Development Process][sdp], and [Human Computer Interaction][hci]. Today we will be discussing the class "[Artificial Intelligence][ai]."

I ended up taking this class in Fall 2021. This is definitely a class where you want to take it with a full semester. I ended up taking this class and no others during the semester. Its' known to be a difficult class, so pair it either with nothing or with a very easy course.

I would start by saying that you should purchase the textbook early and read through relevant chapters for the course. I believe that the six large assignments are relatively standard and stable, so reading up on the algorithms early would be helpful. The course first covered different node traversal algorithms with Depth / Breadth First Search, Djikstra's, and A*. Next the course covered different game playing algorithms such as MiniMax and Alpha-Beta Pruning. The course then covers Bayes Nets. The fourth assignment included different Decision Tree methods, including components such as Gini Indexing to calculate Information gain. The fifth assignment covered Gaussian Mixture Models. The last assignment covered Hidden Markov Models, but I will not be able to talk in depth regarding that since the course had a policy where the lowest graded assignment would be dropped. Since all of my assignments ended up with 90+, I opted not to complete the HMM assignment in lieu of focusing on studying for the final exam.

This class was very difficult. It required quickly watching the course lectures, skimming the textbook, reading the textbook in depth for all of the relevant pseudocode, and then discussing with classmates to figure out when / where something did not make sense. I highly recommend joining an active Slack group in order to find others talking through the issues. Others will also be able to point out other sources to help supplement (or in some cases completely surplant) the lecture content. If there's a 3 Blue 1 Brown video covering a knowledge gap, that's likely your best choice. When I was having trouble understanding Bayes Nets for example, that channel was critical to fixing that knowledge gap. The class was entirely in Python so if you are unfamiliar with that programming language, I would suggest taking a primer course / reading through the Oreilly Fluent Python books to get a solid understanding of the language. Numpy is a required package for this class but doesn't necessarily need a tutorial to know ahead of time.

The course is difficult, but rewarding given how much you learn in a very short period of time. The assignments could be submitted online and graded pretty quickly as well. Each assignment had a limited number of submissions so you couldn't spam through to get the correct answers. The math was not as difficult to understand as expected in retrospect, but reading formula notations can be pretty jarring when you don't have context for that in your day to day work. The content feels valuable even two years removed. The details may not exist in my memory, but the overall concept is retained enough for me to know how to pattern match problems against these algorithms. The process of learning the algorithms was likely more helpful than the retention of the terms. I have the confidence to approach many unknown problems at work with less trepidation than in the past because the answer is probably obscure but not difficult to understand.

There were week long "take home" exams for the mid term and final. I believe these exams are created during that semester, so be prepared for many errata to be published on whatever communication platform is used for the course. Take on an assignment and if there are difficulties on it or questions of interpretation skip to the next section. Repeat until complete and then view the errata that are published. Repeat with runs through the exam. Do not submit until the last day because of the number of changes for the exam.

I highly recommend this class. If you can, take just this class.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-6601-artificial-intelligence