---
layout: default
title: "Machine Learning For Trading - It Will Not Make You Rich"
date: 2024-02-06
categories: omscs
---

Hey all!

Welcome back to another riveting adventure and review of an OMSCS class. This time around we are discussing the [Machine Learning for Trading][ml4t] class! Other posts in this series include [KBAI][kbai], [AI4R][air4], [SDP][sdp], [HCI][hci], and the previous entry of [Artificial Intelligence][ai].

I took the Machine Learning for Trading Class in the Summer of 2022. I took a semester off after the AI class because my family grew by one during that class! I know there are plenty of people who finish the program with more than one kid born throughout, and I truly do not know how others do it. I ended up taking the semester off to take a breather after the difficulty with AI and to ensure that the program was something I wanted to continue pursuing while juggling the new familial responsibilities.

This course teaches some of the fundamentals of trading, including how stock options work, how private equity funds, and a lot about the stock market system. It's an interesting topic to get a quick primer on, and a tangible way to learn and apply different machine learning methods. There was a heavier focus on Quantitative Analysis which are different metrics that are used to predict where a stock may (or may not in the case of many of my predictions) be going. Overall it was interesting to learn, but does not feel immediately useful unless you work in a finance or finance related company.

In terms of technologies the class covered, it heavily used Python and in particular used the Pandas library. I would recommend using an IDE that integrates well with displaying pandas dataframes and the matplotlib graphs. None of the assignments themselves felt that they relied on any advanced algorithms or particularly hard pseudocode to parse. A lot of the work came with getting the data shaped and wrangled into the correct format to run analysis on, which is not unexpected.

There were some introductory assignments that included some basic statistical analysis and presentation work, and an assignment that ensured that you could manipulate stock market data and apply some financial formulas correctly before getting into any Machine Learning methods. The methods included variations on Decision Trees and Random Trees, how to create datasets to "defeat" your own algorithms, and Q Learning. Coming from the AI course the Q Learning portion was the most interesting due to the novelty, but the mixture of ML models and finance data (ie, time series data with a large corpus of metrics to choose from) made for a great learning experience of the different algorithms.

I will say that this class you have to be extremely diligent about following each assignment to the letter in terms of expectations. It's very easy to miss a requirement due to oversight and suddenly be out 5% of the overall grade. I would advocate for Test Driven Development with this course, where the tests are based on the assignment guidelines / requirements.

This class was interesting, and a decent introduction into different Machine Learning methods. Even as a summer course I wouldn't say this course was "hard", but it is a dense course with a lot of assignments to keep on top of. I'd recommend this course over others such as SDP, HCI, or KBAI. I would rate it higher in terms of quality than AI for robotics, but contains a lot of interesting techniques to learn similar to AI4R. If you are strong with Python and Pandas than this is a good course the program with.

-- Steven B.

[omscs-info]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-information
[kbai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-11-27-first-class-review %}
[ai4r]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-04-ai4r-class-review %}
[sdp]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-13-sdp %}
[hci]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2023-12-19-hci %}
[ai]: {% post_url docs/_posts/omscs/2024-01-31-ai %}
[ml4t]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-7646-machine-learning-trading